 Today for seniors, better understanding Medicare coverage. Home health services are a valuable Medicare benefit, but how do you as a patient know what is covered and isn't? Savvy Senior Editor Jim Miller is back to help us understand the service. Thanks for being here. Sure. What are the basic requirements then for receiving home health care? So the first thing is you have to be considered homebound, which means it must be very difficult for you to leave your house, and if you do so, you're going to need to have help from another person or a medical device like a wheelchair or a walker or a cane or crutches. And then you have to have a face-to-face with your doctor who will certify that you either need skilled nursing care or skilled therapy services. So those are required in order to be able to get coverage from Medicare. And then after that, what kind of things can the doctor order? So the doctor can order skilled nursing care or skilled therapy services like we just talked about. They can also order occupational therapy services, and they can also get personal care aids for people that need help with bathing, dressing, going to the bathroom. And it's important for people to know too, Heather, that in order to continue to get Medicare coverage, you have to get recertified by a doctor every 60 days to be able to continue with it. How does it work? Do you get to choose who comes into your home? What's the hiring process like? Yeah, so you have to hire a home health care agency that's certified with Medicare, which is easy to do. You can go to the Medicare website and click on providers and services in the upper right hand corner and plug in your zip code and you can find them that way. Now, if you happen to have a Medicare Advantage plan, you have to contact the plan that you use. Medicare Advantage plans are private plans that are usually HMOs or PPOs. Find out the different types of home health care coverages that are in their network so you can make sure you get covered that way. You know, there's always a catch with everything. So are there any catches in any of these cases? You know, I think it's important to know that Medicare will not cover personal care aids if you don't get skilled nursing care or skilled therapy services. Those are required to get any types of coverage through home health care. Also, Medicare will not cover homemaker services as well. Homemaker will do shopping, cooking, cleaning, things like that. They don't cover that either. And that's such a great help when it is available. So, wow. Okay. And so if you don't then qualify for Medicare home health coverage, are there any other options out there? Yeah, there is. So if you happen to have a long-term care insurance policy or if you have a life insurance policy, you need to check it to see if there are any provisions that can provide some coverage for you. And also, if you're lower income, Medicare or SoonerCare has what they call community-based service waivers that can provide some financial services for home health care. And also, you want to make sure you check your PACE program, Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly. It's a terrific resource that provides in-home care and other services as well. And what about veterans? Yeah, so veterans have a couple of different benefits. One is the aid and attendance homebound allowances. And they also have the Veterans Directed Care program, two programs. You have to be eligible to get them, but they also provide money for veterans. Terrific resource as well. That sounds like it. All right. Thank you for being here, Jim. We appreciate you. And if you have original Medicare, you can locate a Medicare certified home health agency by calling 1-800-633-4227. You can also get started at Medicare.gov. And we have this information at kfor.com slash forseniors. And you can check out Jim's website too at SavvySenior.org.