 Music Whether responsible for the care of someone in a health care provider role or caring for a loved one at home, it is important to recognize safety both for yourself and those whom you care for. Here are five basic guidelines. Number one, know your environment. What's the location of the nearest hospital? What are the phone numbers for emergency services like police and fire departments, poison control centers, and any family members in the area? If you are a visiting care provider with a health service, learn the safety profile of the neighborhood and be aware of any suspicious activity in the immediate location. Caregiver safety is as important as the patient's. Number two, once inside, dedicate your attention to providing a safe environment. Look for tripping hazards like throw rugs and curled edges of carpeting or mats. Tripping over a pet can lead to injuries for the patient as well as the provider. A surprising number of home accidents are caused by people tripping over their pets. So make sure that pets are not underfoot and are a safe distance away when you are performing any caregiving duties. How's the lighting? Is it adequate enough so you can perform your duties without risk? Are the materials you are using most often easily accessible and not on shelves too high to reach? Above all, study the safety guidelines of your agency or healthcare provider company and follow them to the letter. Document any safety concerns so you can help others be aware or to remind you of anything to watch for the next time you visit. Number three, protect your back. Back safety is important in all areas of work but especially with caregiving when lifting, stretching and turning can cause back injuries. Learn how to lift safely. When caring for others, have safety equipment like gait belts, wheelchairs, walkers and canes available and learn how to operate these devices. Using things like elevated toilet seats helps with back strain when moving a patient from the chair to a commode. Make sure all the equipment is in good working order. Number four, needle sticks or blood-borne pathogen exposure. Dispose of needles in the appropriate containers approved for biomedical refuse. This keeps you safe as well as others in the community. Medical wastes should be disposed of in the proper safety bags or containers. Number five, fatigue. Caregivers in general and especially family members often overdo the limits of their role in order to protect and meet the needs of those they care for. Maintaining adequate rest for yourself is as important as providing rest periods for those you treat. Get help when lifting. Take respite from your duties when others offer to help. Caregivers often succumb to illnesses from the stress of caring for others as a result of not taking care of themselves. Be aware of your needs too and take care of yourself. If your health breaks down that hurts everyone.