 Now go ahead with your partner and he's off and I'm going to tell you what to say. You ready? Yeah. And you need to practice. Here's what I want you to say. Move this hand out from between the two of you because what you're doing is letting whatever you're worried about get between the relationship and that's not going to help you in this case because what starts to happen is you don't even see the person. You're so busy being upset about whatever that is. You're forgetting about this relationship which is the most important thing. Look at your person, really look at them now, turn and look. I know, yeah. And here's what I'm going to have you say to them. You ready? I'm sorry I was trying to help. Now as soon as they say that what happens? Your intensity goes way down because they're apologizing for really intruding and it's an acknowledgement that what they did wasn't the right thing for you and that's a really important thing to get out there. Now let me show you the next part. We've got some more words to practice. Here's the second word you're going to practice. I'm sorry I made you angry. Try that one. I know, you're absolutely right. I had no business making you feel like that. So try that one. I'm sorry I made you angry. I'm sorry I embarrassed you. I'm sorry I made you feel stupid. I'm sorry I didn't mean to but I treated you like a child. Now here's one of my favorite. I'm sorry this is hard. Because what I'm acknowledging is this is really hard for me too. Because the person with dementia thinks we're in this and that we're not having a hard time. It is incredibly important that you say out loud how hard this is. Because if you don't tell me, you think I know and I don't. All I know is you think you're the boss of everything. All I know is you seem to know everything I can't hang on to. All I know is every time I see you, you start. And you need to be able to say, I'm sorry mom. This is really hard. And sound like you mean it. And you'll be amazed how many times people will immediately back down and say, I know it's hard. It's hard for me too. And suddenly you're in a different place than you were. And that's because you were willing to do something different.