 Aging population is a serious problem facing the world and it will become increasingly so in the years to come. More and more people are living longer and fewer people are having children. UN statistics predict that by 2050 the number of people aged 60 or above will double to 2.1 billion and the number of people aged 80 or older is expected to triple to 426 million. First of all, an aging population is one where the distribution of a country's population is shifting towards an older age group and it is usually reflected in both the mean and median averages. It is easy to see in these population pyramids. You can see China used to have a wide base showing most of the people are young and a narrow top showing few people are elderly. Now it is shifting towards an older population. The population pyramid is a more rectangular shape. The first problem is that there is not enough young people to fill the gaps in the labour market and then because of this there is a need for immigration to balance the economy which can then have effects either positive or negative depending on your personal perspective. We also have a worsening dependency ratio and fewer young people to support pensions and cost of healthcare for the elderly. Children and elderly consume more and produce less and if they live longer and longer it means the burden for prime working age people is going to increase. People may be left with an uncomfortable decision to make. Do you have children or do you support your elderly parents? It is seen in nature and in some studies on human beings that fertility rates fall when animals or people come under stress and this can be economic stress too. These lower fertility rates will then further compound the issue. Changes also need to be made in an economy which can be hard. For example, if an economy is moving from a growing population to an aging one then there is going to be a shift from services aimed at children such as schools and education to other services such as care homes and healthcare. This can take time and it is very costly. The cost of care for over 65s in the USA is roughly $19,000 per person in 2014 which is five times higher than the spending for a child and three times higher than the spending for working aged people. The burden of who pays also varies around the world. In Asia, families are more likely to pay for most of the care themselves by using family assets whereas in the West, governments will take more responsibility. Often family members may stop working or reduce their working hours to help take care of their family members. This then further compounds the problem and it worsens the dependency ratio. Meanwhile, if governments are responsible, the quality of care provided is not always the same standard as it would be if the family provided it. Much of the world is following in the footsteps of Japan whose rapid ageing began in the 1990s. In 2011, Japan reached a dependency ratio of 2.5 working aged people for every person aged over 65. USA is forecast to reach this by 2050. In 2011, Japan spent 10% of their GDP, about a quarter more than America spends today. The rising spending on Japan's elderly has pushed up public debts to an extremely high level of 266% of their GDP. In comparison, the UK is aiming for around 70%. The problem is not just people are living longer, but many of those years may be spent of low quality and in care homes, the burdening the families and governments. My own grandmother died of Alzheimer's and it is truly a terrible disease because it works so slowly. And this is becoming a big issue for many families around the world. So what can be done to prevent situations like my grandmother where she spent the last 10 years of her life being supported? Well, Japan is very much leading the way with innovative solutions. Firstly, they are trying to keep people active for longer, which will keep people productive in the economy, engage them in the community and this will reduce the risk of Alzheimer's and thus reduce the cost of looking after them in care homes. Programs include table tennis clubs for the elderly, helping in kindergartens and gardening projects. They are also using more and more technology to reduce the labor demands in the economy. And this is across all industries, not just the care industry. They are using more and more robots to provide care and not just physical care, but also emotional support for the elderly, such as this robot here. As I mentioned already, immigration can help, but the effects can be very strong, particularly because immigrants typically have a higher birth rate and thus after a few generations, the culture and racial makeup of the country will change significantly. This could be a big concern for homogenous countries like Japan and China. However, my argument against this is culture is always changing and has always changed in the past. Cultural staples such as fish and chips might seem like they've been around forever and be integral into the culture. But in fact, the first fish and chip shop, as we know it today, was opened by a Jewish immigrant in 1860. I don't want to get lost down the rabbit hole of the immigration debate in this video, but this just gives you an idea of the pros and cons associated with it. Aging population, along with climate change, will likely be the defining challenge over the next 100 years. If you want to know more about population changes, check out my other video about demographic challenges and model.