 The consequence of trying to be a caregiver by yourself is that after two years, maybe three years, you'll get to the stage called, I can't do this anymore. And that's the time that that cry comes to the call centers, to the hotlines for caregiver help, and you can't do it anymore then. You have burned out. Your health has been going to pieces because you haven't probably gone for your own mammogram or for your own stress test or for the sciatica that's been developing because you've been trying to lift somebody and it's more than you can handle. And then you have the freedom to ask for help. But you should ask for it before you get to that point because your health may have been compromised on a more or less long-term basis. But then there is help. There are hotlines. There is community help. And people that are your friends. You know, one of the best things you can do is write out the times or the tasks that you need help performing because you're at work or you're taking care of one of your children or you need to go to the doctor. And if you make them specific and short, no more than an hour, people are more than happy to know, I can help you, my friend, but I can't do it on an unlimited basis. If you ask me to pick up the laundry or to bring something over for mom to eat or to drive dad, your father to an appointment or to look after your kids while you're taking them somewhere, I'm more than happy to do it. But tell me what to do. Otherwise people just don't know and don't think that you might want intrusion. And that's another thing you have to fight is the patient may often say, I don't want anybody else in my home. I'm perfectly all right. I don't need any help. Or I only, the only person I trust is my daughter. I don't want to have anybody else around me. And so you have to be very strategic about meeting that resistance or anticipating it. And one of the best ways to do it, particularly for a man, is to say, you know, dad, I think you need a personal assistant. Oh, well, that's fine. Somebody he can boss around, you know, nice young person who's going to come in and, you know, take care of writing his bills or, you know, making calls for him. It's a great way to introduce a home health worker who again can take care of a lot of other things for dad and maybe even end up being able to help bathing him. With mom, it's a different story. You may bring somebody in and just say, you know, Kathleen's going to come in and just help around the house to kind of help straightening up so it isn't so much of an effort for you. And so Kathleen does that once, gets into conversation with mom. Maybe they play a card game. Maybe they look at a soap together. Oh, they begin to get to know each other. And then gradually, Kathleen can become a home health caregiver.